---
title: Multi-Agent Systems
weight: 3
---

Large swarms of robots can collaboratively solve complex tasks that are difficult or impossible for an individual robot. Intel puts on shows with hundreds of drones to produce spectacular nighttime visuals, networks of sensors in the ocean build cohesive maps of the sea, and groups of robots coordinate in warehouses to fulfill customer orders. Each of these scenarios requires complex coordination. I have several contributions in this area.
- A fundamental building block to advanced swarm robotics algorithms is the ability to efficiently compute an average. Together with researchers at the University of California, San Diego, I wrote a tutorial {{< cite "CSM2019" >}} that was published in the IEEE Control Systems Magazine. This paper had the honor of winning the [2021 IEEE Control Systems Magazine Outstanding Paper Award](http://ieeecss.org/awards/ieee-control-systems-magazine-outstanding-paper-award) that recognizes a single outstanding paper each year and whose list of previous recipients includes many top researchers in the field. The College of Engineering and Computing published a [news article](https://miamioh.edu/cec/news/2022/02/van-scoy-award.html) to commemorate the award.
- Building on the ability to compute averages, many advanced swarm robotics problems can be formulated as optimization problems over the network of robots. I showed that any such problem decomposes into two simpler ones: averaging and centralized optimization {{< cite "LCSS2022" >}}; see also the tutorial paper {{< cite "CDC2023-optcon" >}}. This result reveals the fundamental structure of problems in swarm robotics.
- Avoiding collisions becomes challenging for large swarms of robots. To promote safety, we extended a classical flocking algorithm in computer animation to include collision avoidance, and we analyzed the trade off between robot safety, exploration of the environment, and exploitation of known information in a search and rescue task {{< cite "Franklin-boids" >}}.